#15-112 project

Introduction: My project is mainly based on an ancient Chinese Painting “A Panorama of Rivers and Mountains”, which is the archetypal work of the blue–green shanshui style, and in which the painting stands as the most representable and historically marked piece, with both historical and political meaning in Song Dynasty. In fact, ‘rivers and mountains’ is not satisfactory equivalent from its initial Chinese words ‘江山’ . Since in Chinese humanity culture,’jiangshan(江山)’ points out far more merely landscape but country, permeated with the attachment of the nature and nation.

Description: In this project, what I plan to do is to make people appreciate “A Panorama of Rivers and Mountains” via more interactive way. By strictly setting river’s boundaries, a boat(from the painting) could sail on specific area by manipulation. In other words, if a boat move to bank, it would stop shipping on its initial direction and need people adjust its direction. For the issue concerning about how to manipulate a boat, the first approach is using click event: boat will sail to the line direction to every location clicked. The second approach is through OpenCV: the video can identify what the relative location the finger points out. In addition, when a boat come across some sites, events will be activated. (Pending: Some featured painting construction would be introduced about its basic part and give more example of similar objected painting skills./ the other boats can move randomly on limited area) In preliminary plan, PIL, pygame, Numpy, tkinter is the basic libraries. As for additional library, I plan to dig on the part of ML to see if I can make use of it.

The hard part, in my view, is when boat moves, the picture should also move in certain direction and calculating distance in same time; double-click also approach more larger pics; as for the identification of finger, I consider to use help-circle-paper on finger or ML(if possible to achieve), the function on directing boat might stimulate people’s interest as I think it should require people’s adaptation. In this way, people can appreciate the painting and gain fun at same time.

